Frequently Asked Questions - Reserve Bank of India
































































Skip to main content 




























Selected


























Selected























                    Language


हिंदी


















Click here to 
Visit the RBI’s new website

























            Search the Website





            Search






























Home


About Us


Notifications 




Notifications 


Master Directions 


Master Circulars 


Draft Notifications/Guidelines 


Draft Directions (RE-wise)


Index To RBI Circulars 


Standalone Circulars 


Circulars Withdrawn 






Press Releases


Speeches & Media Interactions




Speeches


Media Interactions


Memorial Lectures


Podcasts






Publications 




Biennial


Annual


Half-Yearly


Quarterly


Bi-monthly


Monthly


Weekly


Occasional


Reports


Working Papers






Legal Framework 




Act 


Rules 


Regulations 


Schemes 






Research 




External Research Schemes


RBI Occasional Papers


Working Papers


RBI Bulletin


History


DRG Studies


KLEMS


State Statistics and Finances






Statistics 




Data Releases


Database on Indian Economy


Public Debt Statistics






Regulatory Reporting




List of Returns


Data Definition






Validation rules/ Taxonomy


List of RBI Reporting Portals


FAQs of RBI Reporting Portals
































Home


FAQ
















 Banker and Debt Manager to Government 
 Commercial Banking  
 Co-operative Banking  
 Non-banking  
 Financial Inclusion and Development  
 Financial Market  
 Foreign Exchange Management  
 Consumer Education and Protection  
 Issuer of Currency  
 Payment and Settlement System  
 FinTech 
 Research  
 Others  
 Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation  












Frequently Asked Questions






 
 Date : 
Aug 19, 2022
FAQs on Resolution Framework for Covid-19 related stress (
Revised on December 12,  2020
) (
Updated as on August 19, 2022
)
 
 
1. In Paragraph 4 of the Annex to the Resolution Framework, it is stated that the reference date for the outstanding amount of debt that may be considered for resolution shall be March 1, 2020. Does this mean that only debt outstanding as on March 1, 2020 can be resolved under the Resolution Framework?
 
The stipulation at Paragraph 4 of the Annex to the Resolution Framework is a general clause regarding the date on which the eligibility criteria for resolution under the Resolution Framework may be assessed. The specific application of the reference date with respect to deciding the eligibility of accounts for resolution under Part A and Part B of the Annex to the Resolution Framework have been separately specified in Paragraphs 6 and 13 respectively, i.e, the requirement that the borrowers should be classified as standard, but not in default for more than 30 days with any lending institution as on March 1, 2020. The actual debt that may be considered for resolution will be the outstanding as on the date of invocation.
 
2. Are all the farm credit as listed in Paragraph 6.1 of 
Master Direction FIDD.CO.Plan.1/04.09.01/2016-17 dated July 7, 2016 (as updated)
 ineligible under the Resolution Framework? Are the JLG loans provided to farmer households by MFIs are eligible for resolution plan under the Resolution Framework?
 
All the farm credit exposures of all lending institutions, including NBFCs, of the nature listed in Paragraph 6.1 of 
Master Direction FIDD.CO.Plan.1/04.09.01/2016-17 dated July 7, 2016 (as updated)
, except for loans to allied activities, viz., dairy, fishery, animal husbandry, poultry, bee-keeping and sericulture are excluded from the scope of the Resolution Framework. Subject to the above, loans given to farmer households would be eligible for resolution under the Resolution Framework if they do not meet any other conditions for exclusions listed in the Resolution Framework.
 
3. In real estate sector and other sectors where a company typically may have multiple projects financed through multiple instruments, can the ICA, escrow account and the financial parameters including the prescribed thresholds be made applicable at the project level rather than the legal entity to which the lending institutions may have exposure?
 
The requirement of ICA in respect of the entity to which lending institutions have exposure is a basic feature of 
Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets dated June 7, 2019
, and consequently that of the Resolution Framework. There is sufficient flexibility to the lending institutions to formulate ICAs in respect of a legal entity to which they have exposure that address the specific requirements of each borrowers on a case to case basis, including designing different resolution approaches for different projects under the same borrower within an ICA. Similarly, apart from the escrow account required to be set up at the legal entity level as required by the Resolution Framework, there is no prohibition in setting up additional separate escrow accounts at each project level, if the lenders desire so. Only in respect of borrowers belonging to real estate sector, and have both residential and commercial real estate business, the prescribed thresholds for the financial parameters may be applied at the project level.
 
4. The Resolution Framework states that the accounts that do not fulfill the eligibility conditions may continue to be considered under the prudential framework applicable to the specific category of institutions. Does it mean that alternative resolution frameworks available to a specific category of financial institutions such as Paragraph 2(1)(zc)(ii) of the Master Circular – The Housing Finance companies (NHB) Directions, 2010 for housing finance companies, and Paragraph 2.2.7.21 of the 
Master Circular- Income Recognition, Asset Classification, Provisioning and Other Related Matters – UCBs dated July 1, 2015
 for Urban Co-operative Banks would continue to be applicable for non-Covid impacted borrowers?
 
For the borrowers eligible for resolution under the 
circular dated August 6, 2020
 on Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress, the circular dated August 6, 2020 will be applicable if a resolution process under the circular is invoked. For all other borrowers, the extant instructions as otherwise applicable shall still be in force. However, if any entity is otherwise eligible to be resolved under the Resolution Framework, only Resolution Framework can be used for resolving the stress arising out of the pandemic.
 
5. Are microfinance loans to individuals, including JLG borrowers, eligible for resolution under the Resolution Framework? Similarly, whether Loans sanctioned to Self Help Groups (SHGs) engaged in non-farm activities are eligible to the benefit under the Resolution Framework?
 
All loans meeting the eligibility criteria, unless covered by the specific exclusions listed in Paragraph 2 of the Annex to the Resolution Framework subject to the clarification at Sl. No. 2 above fall within the scope of resolution under the framework. These loans, if not falling under any of the categories mentioned in Paragraph 2 of the Annex to the Resolution Framework, is eligible for resolution under Part A of the Annex if they fall within the purview of “personal loans” as defined in the 
Circular DBR.No.BP.BC.99/08.13.100/2017-18 dated January 4, 2018
 on “XBRL Returns – Harmonization of Banking Statistics”, even if they are not explicitly classified as so in any regulatory / supervisory reporting, or under Part B of the Annex otherwise.
 
6. In Paragraph 8 of the Annex to the Resolution Plan, it is stated that resolution under this framework may be invoked not later than December 31, 2020 and must be implemented within 90 days from the date of invocation. What are the meanings of the terms ‘invocation’ and ‘implementation’ in this context?
 
The definitions of invocation and implementation in respect of eligible personal loans have been given in Paragraphs 7 and 10 respectively of the Annex to the Resolution Framework. In respect of other eligible loans, invocation shall be as per Paragraphs 14 and 15 of the Annex to the Resolution Framework whereas implementation shall have the meaning as per Paragraphs 14-16 of the 
circular dated June 7, 2019
 on Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets.
 
7. Is the Resolution Framework applicable to all exposures, including investment exposures that are credit substitutes like corporate bonds, commercial papers etc.?
 
The Resolution Framework may be invoked for resolution of all exposures of lending institutions to eligible borrowers, including investment exposures. However, the Resolution Framework is without prejudice to all applicable guidelines issued by the relevant financial sector regulators and other Departments of the RBI in respect of any particular exposure.
 
8. Are the various additional provisions prescribed in the Resolution Framework applicable to NBFCs who are following IndAS?
 
NBFCs which are required to comply with Indian Accounting Standards (IndAS) shall, as hitherto, continue to be guided by the guidelines duly approved by their Boards and as per ICAI Advisories for recognition of significant increase in credit risk and computation of Expected Credit Losses. However, the various additional provisions mentioned in the 
circular dated August 6, 2020
 would constitute the prudential floors for the purpose of Paragraph 2 of the Annex to the 
circular DOR (NBFC).CC.PD.No.109/22.10.106/2019-20 dated March 13, 2020
 on Implementation of Indian Accounting Standards.
 
9. Whether the list of financial parameters prescribed by the Expert Committee and notified by RBI on September 7, 2020 are applicable only to borrowers having exposure of more than ₹1500 crore or for all resolution plans to be undertaken in terms of Resolution Framework?
 
The instructions in the 
circular dated September 7, 2020
 is applicable in the case of all borrowers in respect of whom resolution is being undertaken in terms of Part B of the Annex to the 
circular dated August 6, 2020
 on Resolution Framework.
 
10. Are the additional provisions prescribed under the Resolution Framework to be treated as specific provisions to be maintained or as general provisions that would partly qualify for inclusion as Tier 2 capital?
 
The various additional provisions prescribed under the Resolution Framework are specific provisions to be maintained in respect of each exposure under consideration.
 
11. Can lending institutions implement resolution plans involving deferment of date of commencement of commercial operations (DCCO) in respect of projects under implementation under the Resolution Framework?
 
Restructuring in respect of projects under implementation involving deferment of DCCO are excluded from the scope of the Resolution Framework. The extant regulations contained in Paragraph 4.2.15 of 
DBR.No.BP.BC.2/21.04.048/2015-16 dated July 1, 2015
, 
DOR.No.BP.BC.33/21.04.048/2019-20 dated February 7, 2020
 and the other relevant instructions as applicable to specific category of lending institutions, already permit revisions of the DCCO and consequential shift in repayment schedule without being treated as restructuring subject to a maximum of four years in the case of infrastructure projects and a maximum of two years in the case of non-infrastructure projects (including commercial real estate exposures). In addition to the above, DCCO of projects may be extended by a further two years in case of change in ownership subject to the conditions specified in the above instructions.
 
12. Is there any minimum cut off with respect to aggregate outstanding exposure with banking system for mandatorily signing ICA under the Resolution Framework? Also, whether the ICA norms are applicable to loans availed by individuals for business purpose from two or more banks?
 
If there are multiple lending institutions with exposure to a borrower whose resolution is undertaken in terms of Part B of the Annex to the Resolution Framework, all lending institutions having exposure to such borrower are required to enter into ICA.
 
13. In Paragraph 33 of the Annex to the Resolution Framework, it is stated that Resolution plans in respect of accounts where the aggregate exposure of the lending institutions at the time of invocation of the resolution process is ₹100 crore and above, shall require an independent credit evaluation (ICE) by any one credit rating agency (CRA) authorized by the Reserve Bank under the Prudential Framework. What will be the minimum desirable ICE symbol for this purpose?
 
Only such resolution plans which receive a credit opinion of RP4 or better for the residual debt from a CRAs shall be considered for implementation under the Resolution Framework. In case credit opinion is obtained from more than one CRA, all such credit opinions must be RP4 or better.
 
14. The definition of MSME had been changed by the Government vide Gazette notification dated June 26, 2020. As the reference date for the Resolution Framework is March 1, 2020, which definition of MSMEs will be applicable for the purpose of eligibility or otherwise for resolution under the Resolution Plan?
 
For the purpose of eligibility for resolution under the Resolution Framework, the definition of MSME that would be applicable is the one that existed as on March 1, 2020.
 
15. The 
circular dated September 7, 2020
 has listed only a few sectors in respect of which the threshold values for the mandatory financial parameters have been prescribed. Does this mean that Resolution Framework is not applicable to borrowers belonging to other sectors?
 
Resolution Framework is applicable in respect of all eligible borrowers subject to the exclusions prescribed in Paragraph 2 of the Annex to the 
circular dated August 6, 2020
. In respect of those sectors where the sector-specific thresholds have not been specified in the 
circular dated September 7, 2020
, lending institutions shall make their own internal assessments regarding TOL/ATNW and Total Debt/EBITDA. However, the current ratio and DSCR in all cases shall be 1.0 and above, and ADSCR shall be 1.2 and above.
 
16. If a loan account was more than 30 DPD on March 1, 2020, but subsequently got regularised through receipt of overdue, will such accounts be eligible for resolution plan under this framework?
 
Such accounts are ineligible for resolution under the Resolution Framework as the Resolution Framework is applicable only for eligible borrowers which were classified as standard, but not in default for more than 30 days as on March 1, 2020. However, such accounts may still be resolved under the 
Prudential Framework dated June 7, 2019
.
 
17. Will the following categories of loans be classified as personal loans:
 
 
 
“Loan Against Property” loans which are availed for business purpose but are secured by immovable assets
 
 
 
Loans granted to individuals where the property is in name of individual and a related company/non individual entity has been taken as co-borrower on the loan structure to supplement the income for repayment of loan.
 
 
 
If not, where would such set of customers would be covered for Covid-19 related stress?
 
In terms of the 
circular DBR.No.BP.BC.99/08.13.100/2017-18 dated January 4, 2018
, the above exposures do not qualify as personal loans. In such cases, the resolution of eligible borrowers may be undertaken under Part B of the Annex to the Resolution Framework.


18. Does invocation under the  Resolution Framework require the borrowers to submit any specific resolution  plan and the lenders to agree on implementation of the same before December 31,  2020?


No. The Resolution Framework  does not require any resolution plan in any form to be submitted to the lending  institutions at the time of request for invocation. Rather, for invocation, the  borrowers are required to merely submit a request to the lending institutions  for being considered under the Resolution Framework. Thereafter, the lending  institutions will take an in-principle decision – as per their Board approved  policy – on invoking the Resolution Framework. After such invocation, the  specific contours of resolution plan to be implemented may be decided by the  lending institutions, in consultation with the borrower. While for personal  loans the resolution plan is to be implemented within 90 days from the date of  invocation, for all other loans a period of 180 days from the date of  invocation has been prescribed.




19. In case only term  loan facility of a borrower has been restructured, whether a lender having only  working capital exposure to the same borrower is required to create provisions  under the Resolution Framework, even if working capital exposure has not been  restructured?


Para 17 read with para 21 of the 
Resolution  Framework for COVID-19-related Stress dated August 6, 2020
 (RF 1.0) makes  signing of ICA mandatory for all the lending institutions who have exposure to  the concerned borrower (subject to para 19
1
).  Since the borrower has opted for restructuring as a consequence of stress in  the account, all the exposures to the borrower shall be treated as restructured  and provisions shall be held on the entire residual debt, including the working  capital facility.


20. In case a lender has  only working capital exposure, what will be the criteria for reversal of  provisions?


For an exclusive working capital lender, where the  exposure is in the form of facilities other than term loans, provisions can be  reversed after satisfactory performance
2
 of  the working capital facility for one year, post implementation of the  Resolution Plan.


In respect of outstanding ‘loan component’ of  working capital limit (Working Capital Loan), paragraphs 45
3
 of RF  1.0 shall apply, which provides for two-stage reversal of provisions on  repayment of the stipulated proportion of the residual/carrying debt at each  stage, subject to the prescribed conditions.


21. Post-implementation  of the resolution plan, will the required provisioning change with the change  in the outstanding balance of residual debt, which may arise on account of  repayment or disbursal of additional amounts?


The lending institutions shall make provisions on  the residual debt at the time of implementation of the Resolution Plan, as  stipulated in the relevant Resolution Framework. These provisions need to be  held, irrespective of changes in the outstanding balance, until the same is  reversed in terms of the provisions contained in the relevant Resolution  Framework.


22. Post-implementation  of the resolution plan, will the required provisioning change with the change  in the outstanding balance of residual debt, which may arise in case of any  non-fund based facility getting devolved subsequently into fund-based facility?


The lending institutions shall make provisions on  the residual debt at the time of implementation of the Resolution Plan, as  stipulated in the relevant Resolution Framework. If any non-fund based facility  gets devolved subsequently, the devolved amount shall be reckoned as residual debt
4
 and  shall attract provisions as per Paragraph 40
5
 and  41
6
 of RF  1.0, and consequently, the assessment of monitoring period should be updated  accordingly. The entire provisions (including the provisions on the devolved  amount) shall be held, until the same is reversed in terms of the provisions  contained in the relevant Resolution Framework.




1
 
Para 19. Lenders to the  borrower which are other than the lending institutions as per this circular may  also sign the ICA, if they so desire. If such lenders sign the ICA, they shall  be fully bound by the stipulations of the ICA


2
 
As defined in the 
Prudential  Framework dated June 07, 2019
.


3
 
Para 45. In case of resolution of other exposures, the  provisions maintained by the ICA signatories may be reversed as prescribed in  Para 44. However, in respect of the non-ICA signatories while half of the  provisions may be reversed upon repayment of 20 percent of the carrying debt,  the other half may be reversed upon repayment of another 10 per cent of the  carrying debt, subject to the required IRAC provisions being maintained.


4
 
As at the time of implementation of the Resolution Plan


5
 
In other cases where a resolution plan is implemented under this facility,  the lending institutions, which had signed the ICA within 30 days of  invocation, shall keep provisions from the date of implementation, which are  higher of the provisions held as per the extant IRAC norms immediately before  implementation, or 10 percent of the total debt, including the debt securities  issued in terms of para 30, held by the ICA signatories post-implementation of  the plan (residual debt).


6
 
However, lending institutions which did not sign the ICA within 30 days of  invocation shall, immediately upon the expiry of 30 days, keep provisions of 20  per cent of the debt on their books as on this date (carrying debt), or the  provisions required as per extant IRAC norms, whichever is higher. Even in  cases where the invocation lapses on account of the thresholds for ICA signing  not being met, in terms of para 18, such lending institutions which had earlier  agreed for invocation but did not sign the ICA shall also be required to hold  20 percent provisions on their carrying debt.










Top












Top




Back to previous page
















More
 Links 






Bank Holidays


Banking Glossary


Citizen's Charter


Complaints


Contact Us


COVID-19 Measures


E-LMS


Events


FAQs


Financial Education


Forms


IFSC/MICR Codes


Important Websites


Opportunities
@
RBI


RBI Clarifications


RBI Kehta Hai


RBI's Core Purpose, Values and Vision 


Right to Information Act


Tenders












Follow
 RBI






RSS








Twitter
              






YouTube






Instagram
              




Facebook






LinkedIn
              





   	 Download Mobile App


Play Store


App Store
















© Reserve Bank of India. All Rights Reserved. 


Sitemap
 
|
 
Disclaimer




Website owned and managed by Reserve Bank of India. Contact us on helpdoc[at]rbi[dot]org[dot]in


Website last updated date: Jan 22, 2026




Supports: Google Chrome 125+ | Firefox 126+ | Microsoft Edge Version 125+ | Safari 17+


Screen Reader